Welcome everyone to this lecture on live deployment let's now deploy our application it's working locally
to the web so anyone online can use it.
Keep in mind there are dozens of different services to deploy and host web applications and we can make
an entire course out of just showing this process for every single service.
But if you just do a google search of flask application plus deploy to your preferred platform like
AWOL yes or Google or Azure there's going to be tutorials for pretty much any online service for deploying
a python web application.
So keep that in mind.
We're going to be using the free service from Heroku mainly because it's free and you will get charge
for this.
However the one thing you will need to do is create a Heroku account and we'll kind of walk through
that later on in this lecture however please make sure to follow along with us carefully.
Any minor typo will pretty much cause the entire app to fail.
So please make sure to reference our files during the deployment process and I'll be doing that myself
as well.
So the main steps we need to follow is to first create a Heroku account and then we need to install
some command line tools that we're going to be using in order to push things to our server.
Then we'll install and setup kit as well as create a Heroku application and essentially push and install
everything to that online Heroku application let's begin by setting up a brand new folder on our desktop
that we will work from.
And we're gonna copy the official course files.
This folder just to make sure that we don't make any typos along the way.
So let me go to my desktop now.
OK.
Here I am at the desktop when I'm going to do is just create a new folder so how are we create a new
folder in your operating system.
Go ahead and do that and I'll call this folder just deployment all lowercase hit enter and then inside
this folder what I'm going to do is let's go ahead and open it up.
All right.
So now let's grab the necessary files from the course notes.
So I will open up tensor flow to boot camp come down to deployment and then what I'm going to do is
grab the templates folder as well as our provided final app dot pie file and then the model and the
pickle file.
Go ahead and copy these and then bring them back over underneath the deployment folder.
So then we'll go ahead and hit paste here.
And one last thing we need to do is because of the way we're going to later on set up our process file
I need to change this application to just be app dot pi.
So go ahead and rename this to just be app dot pi later on we're going to be using a library called
Green unicorn in order to set up a process file and within that process file.
I just say app colon an app and because I say the name my app is app I need this to match up with app
that pie.
So go ahead and make that change
and then what you're going to do is go ahead and search for Heroku hit enter.
You'll see sign up at Heroku dot com.
Go ahead and click on this and we're gonna do a couple of things here.
We're gonna sign up for free.
So go ahead and click sign up for free and then fill out the information to sign up.
I already have an account here so I'm going to log in instead and once you log in you should be taken
to your dashboard it looks something like this.
And if it doesn't even go to a dashboard that Heroku comes forward slash apps.
So this is the dashboard.
But before we start using it we want to get the Heroku command line interface so open up a new browser
to Google.
And then just search for Heroku command line and then it should take you to this page right here on
the command line specifically Hiroki is CSI.
So here's the command line and there's this little button somewhere on this page says install the Heroku
CSI.
You can also do a google search install Heroku see a line I'll take you to this link.
Go ahead and click on that.
And then depending on your operating system you can either use the Mac OS installer the Ubuntu installer
or the windows installer.
I'm going to do the Windows installer in order to actually use the Heroku command line tool.
You also need it.
So if you check out get here you can follow the instructions on installing it as well as a first time
get setup already have get installed on my computer so I don't need to follow these instructions I'll
skip forward to installing the heroic command line interface so click on the 64 bit installer and then
go ahead and download that once you've downloaded that Heroku setup just go ahead install the default
option selected go ahead install it in a fast forward until this is done installing.
All right.
So that finished installing for me what we need to do next is open up our command prompt.
Keep in mind since this is a command line interface tool and so as get you should really restart your
computer before continuing on.
So I would recommend that you restart your computer before continue onto the next step.
I technically already had all these things installed so I don't need to restart my computer.
So what I will do is directly come back here and open up an instance of my command prompt and what I'm
going to do is I'm going to S.D. or change directory into my desktop and then C.D. into that deployment
folder that I was in.
Next I want to create a new environment just for this flask application.
So the way we can do this with Anaconda is really similar to the way that we created it for our original
tensor flow environment.
One thing to note here is at the time that I'm filming this tensor flow does not yet support the latest
version of Python which is Python three point eight.
So we need to specify a specific version of Python in our create command.
So I will say Conda create dash dash name and then let's call this my deploy e envy for my deployment
environment and then say python is equal to three point seven.
Go ahead and enter.
And then what that should do is download and install Python three point seven for you go ahead and select
Y for yes to that.
It can download and install all this for you.
Once that's done you should see something that looks like this that basically says activate the environment.
I will say Conda activates my deploy e and V and now my environment has been activated.
Let me type CLSA to clear this.
We can go back to the top.
There we go.
So now my deployment is has an environment ready to go.
I need to install the libraries.
I am going to be using.
So we'll say pip install and we should be using Pip for this not contour and you'll see why later on
we'll make a pip freeze requirements file off of this.
So we'll say pip install and we know each flask so we'll install flask and then after flask is done
installing.
We'll also need to pip install flask dash WTS.
So let that install going to clear my screen again.
So a couple more libraries.
Obviously we need to install tensor flow but we also need to install cycle learn so go in and say cycle
learn pip install cycle learn recall we use that for the scaling object so it's going to download and
install both side pipes like it learn and anything else it needs in a fast forward until it's done.
All right.
So I've finished installing what's nice about this it also installs job lib and MP for a certain thing
to worry about that anymore.
And then you just need to say pip install tensor flow and hit enter.
OK so going to fast forward until that's done installing collecting sensor flow once that's done go
ahead and install one more library.
Going to clear my screen here and that library is called g unicorn which stands for green unicorn which
is essentially a python web server Gateway interface and it's what allows us to take our flasks application
and push it to the Heroku server.
So go ahead and then say Pip install G unicorn.
Now one should be a pretty fast and pretty straight forward.
So our virtual environment now has all these Pip installed for libraries and we want to make sure that
we can get the requirements out text file that we can then push the server and pip install all the libraries
onto the server.
So what we do here is once we're done of all this we say Pip freeze and then we do kind of an arrow
sign or greater than sign and then say requirements Dot T X T.
And it has to be called requirements that to 60 for Heroku then hit enter and you should now see requirements
that t x t as a file.
Let's go ahead and check that out on our computer.
So here under deployment now notice I have this requirements file.
There's one more file that we need to create and that is a process file and that's also specially required
by Heroku.
So to do it what I need to do is open up sublime text editor let me go ahead and do that so let me bring
in sublime text editor open already.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to type out the following and you need to type this exactly as
I'm showing here.
Web colon space G unicorn space app colon app.
So that's all we need there.
And then we're going to do here is we're going to say file and then we'll save this and then underneath
my deployment for folder are going to save this as capital P R O C F I L E so proc file or process file
and then we save that there.
Okay so I was the last thing you need to do in order to set everything up in order to push this all
to Heroku.
So let me close this now.
We have our requirements file ready set up.
We have our model and our scalar the app file and then the templates as well.
Now let's go back to Heroku and set up our application on the Heroku end of things before we come back
to the command line.
So I'm going to open up Heroku again and then when I'm going to do is I'm gonna Google Search Heroku
woops.
Yes I did mean Heroku.
There we go and then we're going to create a new app so click on Create new app and then we need to
choose a unique app name so I will call this my dash flower dash app and it'll tell me whether or not
it's available.
Looks like it is available so me hit then create app
and then we're we're going to do is we're going to be using the Heroku get command line interface as
our deployment method and then we're just going to follow the instructions shown here.
So it's really nice but this is you have the step by step instructions as shown here.
So let's go ahead and do this.
So we're gonna do all these instructions at our command line.
Can I bring up my command line again let me shrink it down so we kind of see both at the same time.
The first thing that we need to do is type out Heroku log in to say Heroku log in and if it says Heroku
is not recognized.
Go ahead and make sure you restart your computer but upon hitting Heroku log in.
You should be able to press any key to open up the browser so open that up and it should open up an
automatic browser page that then allows you to log in to Heroku and then once you hit that log in and
sign in they'll say logged in as.
And then your email that you're using for the log in.
OK.
So once that's ready next hour you're going to do is create a new get repository.
So make sure you see the ad already and then say get in it hit enter and now initialize an empty kit
repository and then what we'll do is type up the command as shown here Heroku space get colon remote
dash a my flower app or whatever you happen to name your application.
So this essentially syncs up that get repository to remote on Heroku.
Next we want to deploy our application.
So we say gets ad space just a dot or a period to enter the ads and any new files that we created there.
And then we're going to say gets commit space dash a M and then double quotes here added files or whatever
message you want to say hit enter and you should see it essentially create modes for all those files
and then the last minute to type in here you follow along the instructions is get push Heroku master.
So you say get push Heroku master and now we'll take all those files and push them up to the Heroku
server.
So give that some time depending on your internet speed.
It may take a little bit of time to actually push everything to the Heroku server.
OK.
And then there's instructions here if you already have an existing repository you can just run these
commands.
OK I'm going to fast forward until that's done.
Now something you may notice from time to time depending on your application is towards the very bottom.
It may say something like push failed you know push rejected something et cetera or remote rejected.
And essentially what's happening is Heroku requires for a python application.
The requirements not text file and what it tries to do is install all those libraries in your requirements
text file and if it's not able to do one of them they'll just reject the push and you'll notice that
if I scroll up here it said no matching distribution found for tensor flow two point zero point zero
but you'll notice it.
It tried a bunch of things.
So it said hey we tried zero point twelve point one one point zero etc. and towards the very end you'll
notice that there is alpha or beta versions that are available for whatever particular version of Python
that Heroku is using.
So we need to do is open up our requirements our text file and change to point zero point zero to two
point zero point zero a zero and you'll see this for any other type of library that you're trying to
install in case you run into any issues.
So let's open up sublime.
So open up sublime text editor and then what I'm going to say is File Open file going to open up requirements
file and then essentially scroll down here until we find tensor flow and here's tensor flow.
What I'm going to do is let's go and just delete tensor flow estimate her as well as tensor board because
we know those will be installed automatically if tensor flow.
And here we have two point zero point zero.
It's not able to find that.
So we'll come back to our actual command line that was telling us what version was available.
It looks like zero point zero a zero is available.
So let's do that let's say 2.0 and then say a zero save those changes and then we're going to come back
to our command prompt.
All right.
With those new changes we want to commit them so we say get commit dash a M and say updated requirements
file or whatever you want to say hit enter and then it'll probably report back to you that it updated.
I actually committed twice during the filming of this so it says nothing to commit.
After that we'll say get push Heroku master and we're gonna try essentially pushing that command again
now with our fixed requirements file so we'll see all this thing.
It says app detected pushing and stalling.
Notice it's installing Python three point six nine it's installing Pip etc. So we should now be able
to find the particular version of tensor flow that Heroku has access to.
So let's go ahead and fast forward until this is done installing.
All right.
So at the very end we should be seeing is something like this verifying deploy done.
And if you ever want to update anything you just need to do some more commitments or more commits excuse
me and then push those as well.
So what's really cool here is notice it says HD CPS my flower app Heroku app dot com deployed to Heroku
go ahead and copy that.
Your URL and take it to your browser souls.
Open up our browser.
All right.
So now our application is running live on the web which means anyone could access this from a laptop
with Web access.
Let's go ahead and just input the values we did last time.
Luckily my browser remember them analyze.
And then here we go the flower class is supposed to keep in mind if you have an extremely large model
this won't fit within the free tier but our model is pretty simple or scaling is pretty simple.
And there it is your tenth floor application is now live on the web.
Congratulations.
And I hope you enjoyed the process.